chore(docs): symbol, index, SQL refs clarification (#988) (#1017)
questdb/questdb.io: docs/concept/symbol.md

- Reduced complexity of database schemas by removing the need for explicit
  additional tables or joins.

## Properties

- Symbol tables are stored separately from column data.
- Fast conversion from `string` to `int` and vice-versa when reading or writing
  data.
- Columns defined as `symbol` types support indexing.

> - Users may configure QuestDB to store `symbol` types in memory for improved

Reviewer: nit: might be a good idea to mention that the cache is enabled by default. Also, symbol cache also improves ILP ingestion speed since lookups are also needed there.

  query speed (see the `cairo.default.symbol.cache.flag`
  [configuration option](/docs/reference/configuration)).

## Usage of `symbols`

### `Symbol` columns

Columns can be specified as `SYMBOL` during table creation similar to other
types:

```questdb-sql title="Create table with a SYMBOL type"
CREATE TABLE my_table

>   (symb SYMBOL capacity 128 nocache, price DOUBLE, ts TIMESTAMP)

Reviewer: nit: would be nice to have all SQL keywords in upper case
```suggestion
  (symb SYMBOL CAPACITY 128 NOCACHE, price DOUBLE, ts TIMESTAMP)
```

timestamp(ts);
```

> `Symbol`following additional settings, defined either globally or locally when a table is created:

Reviewer: The sentence looks incomplete:
```suggestion
The following additional symbol settings are defined either globally or locally when a table is created:
```

- **Symbol capacity**: Optional setting used to indicate how many distinct values this column is expected to have. Based on the value used, the data structures will resize themselves when necessary, to allow QuestDB to function correctly. Underestimating the symbol value count may result in drop of performance whereas over-estimating may result in higher disk space and memory consumption. Symbol capacity is also used to set the initial symbol cache size when the cache is enabled.

>   - Server-wide setting: `cairo.default.symbol.capacity` with a default of 256

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
  - Server-wide setting: `cairo.default.symbol.capacity` with a default of `256`
```

> - **Cache**: Optional setting specifying whether a symbol should be cached. When a `symbol` column is cached, QuestDB will use a Java Heap-based Map to resolve symbol values and keys. When a column has a large number of distinct symbol values (over 100,000, for example), the heap impact might be significant and may cause OutOfMemory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Cache**: Optional setting specifying whether a symbol should be cached. When a `symbol` column is cached, QuestDB will use a Java heap-based hash table to resolve symbol values and keys. When a column has a large number of distinct symbol values (over 100,000, for example), the heap impact might be significant and may cause OutOfMemory
```

> - **Cache**: Optional setting specifying whether a symbol should be cached. When a `symbol` column is cached, QuestDB will use a Java Heap-based Map to resolve symbol values and keys. When a column has a large number of distinct symbol values (over 100,000, for example), the heap impact might be significant and may cause OutOfMemory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Cache**: Optional setting specifying whether a symbol should be cached. When a `symbol` column is cached, QuestDB will use a Java heap-based hash table to resolve symbol values and keys. When a column has a large number of distinct symbol values (over 100,000, for example), the heap impact might be significant and may cause OutOfMemory
```

> errors, depending on the heap size. Not caching leverages an off-heap structure which can deal with larger value counts but is slower.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
errors, depending on the heap size. Not caching leverages a memory-mapped structure which can deal with larger value counts but is slower.
```

>   - Server-wide setting: `cairo.default.symbol.cache.flag` with a default of true

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
  - Server-wide setting: `cairo.default.symbol.cache.flag` with a default of `true`
```

  - Column-wide setting: The [`CACHE | NOCACHE` keyword](/docs/reference/sql/create-table/#symbol-caching) for `CREATE TABLE` 

### Symbols for column indexing

`Symbols` may also be [indexed](/docs/concept/indexes) for faster query execution in the following ways:

- When creating a table, [CREATE TABLE](/docs/reference/sql/create-table/#column-indexes):

```questdb-sql

> CREATE TABLE my_table(symb SYMBOL index, price DOUBLE, ts TIMESTAMP)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CREATE TABLE my_table(symb SYMBOL INDEX, price DOUBLE, ts TIMESTAMP)
```

>   timestamp(ts)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  timestamp(ts);
```

```
- Altering an existing `symbol` column in a table, [ALTER TABLE COLUMN ADD INDEX](/docs/reference/sql/alter-table-alter-column-add-index):

```questdb-sql title="Adding an index"
ALTER TABLE trades ALTER COLUMN instrument ADD INDEX;
```

When a symbol column is indexed, an additional **index capacity** can be defined to specify how many row IDs to store in a single storage block on disk:

> - Server-wide setting: `cairo.index.value.block.size` with a default of 256

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Server-wide setting: `cairo.index.value.block.size` with a default of `256`
```

- Column-wide setting: The [`index` option](/docs/reference/sql/create-table/#column-indexes) for `CREATE TABLE`.

An example of `CREATE TABLE` command creating a table with an index capacity of 128:

```questdb-sql
CREATE TABLE my_table(symb SYMBOL, price DOUBLE, ts TIMESTAMP),

>   index (symb capacity 128) timestamp(ts);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  INDEX (symb CAPACITY 128) timestamp(ts);
```

-- equivalent to

> CREATE TABLE my_table(symb SYMBOL index capacity 128, price DOUBLE, ts TIMESTAMP),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CREATE TABLE my_table(symb SYMBOL INDEX CAPACITY 128, price DOUBLE, ts TIMESTAMP),
```

  timestamp(ts);
```

:::note

The **index capacity** and **symbol capacity** are different settings.

:::
 

> Fewer blocks used to store row IDs achieves better performance. At the same time over-sizing the setting will result in higher than necessary disk space usage.

Reviewer: nit: I'd add a note suggesting users not to change the default unless they really know what they're doing.

Author: I added some wording but I don't like it! Let me think how to improve it....
